---
title: Reflection on reading Selected Marx and Engels
summary: Coursework in The Principles of Marxism Theories, 2021 Fall
tags:
  - Coursework
  - Marx
  - Engels
  - 2021 Fall
date: '2021-10-28T00:00:00Z'

# Optional external URL for project (replaces project detail page).
external_link: ''

image:
  caption: Photo of the first paragraph in the article
  focal_point: Smart

# Slides (optional).
#   Associate this project with Markdown slides.
#   Simply enter your slide deck's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `slides = "example-slides"` references `content/slides/example-slides.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `slides = ""`.
---
Access to full PDF in Chinese and English[Reflection on reading Selected Marx and Engels](./Reflection%20on%20reading%20Selected%20Marx%20and%20Engels.pdf)

<h2><center>Reflections on reading the first volume of the Selected Works of Marx and Engels</center></h2>
<center>Yunzhe Li 20123101</center>

As the foundation and guiding ideology of our country's founding, Marx and Engels' theory is undoubtedly worth studying for all the people. I am ashamed to have read only about 10 sections of the book in about a month, but I am deeply impressed by the thoughts and logic of the two scholars. These sections mainly criticize the undesirability of capitalism, explain the reasons and internal logic, and argue the point of view from multiple angles. In my opinion, what I have learned is not only the fundamental ideas of socialism, but more importantly, the understanding and treatment of contemporary social phenomena triggered by the logical reasoning and refutation of The Times. This article will elaborate my understanding and some feelings and views in the contemporary environment. Since the chapters in the anthology are drawn from different works, I will select four of them for discussion and analysis.

**I. Comprehension of the introduction to Critique of Hegel's Philosophy of Right
The first is Marx's criticism of Hegel's philosophy of law. What is religion? Its formation is the people's criticism of the suffering world. They cannot find happiness in reality, and rely on the illusory "other shore" to find the motivation for themselves to live. Therefore, in order to establish correct ideas, the key lies in the establishment of "this shore" truth, that is, the innovation of politics and law. There are still legitimate religions in contemporary society. Take Buddhism, which I studied in my freshman year, for example. The juche idea is "karma", that is, from the perspective of "man", which is consistent with Marx's "man is always the highest essence of man". I also learned a lot from Buddhist thinking about how to deal with and think about difficult situations and the value of life. In my opinion, for modern times, we should be open to different ideas, but this kind of thinking must start from "people", and constantly revise their values and world outlook in combination with different ideas.
At the same time, Marx also pointed out in this article that the main reason for Germany's current situation at that time was that it was "first in theory and backward in practice", and the impact would be that it thought that it had been realized in theory but had not put it into action, and the result was that "only shared the pain of development, but did not share the happiness of development". The same is true of setting goals in life. We may intermittently think big and make a long list of things To do, but fail to implement them. In fact, the consequences have long been learned from history. The goal listed is very ambitious, as if the results have been harvested when listed, this illusion brings psychological comfort, but I did not rigorously analyze the feasibility, when the deadline is up, the realization of few goals, will have psychological impact and self-denial, only share the pain, and enjoy the short-term satisfaction of making goals. The book Delayed Gratification, which I read during the summer vacation, made a psychological analysis and put forward solutions to this kind of deviation from theory and practice, and I was deeply benefited by it.

**II. Understanding and perception of the Critical Outline of National Economics**
Engels's Critical Outline of National Economics also contains many ideas that are applicable to contemporary times. The first is the criticism of Malthusian population theory, which is a typical one-sided thinking, does not take into account the development of The Times, and looks at things statically, completely ignoring the progress of society and science and technology. What Marx advocated was not to follow the rules to implement his ideas and policies, but to take his ideas as the basis, adapt to the changes of The Times and constantly improve his ideas to adapt to The Times, which is very important.
Another issue worth discussing in this chapter is competition and monopoly. Competition is based on interests, and interests will lead to monopoly; In this case, the interest of a single person is to possess everything, while the interest of the group is to possess everyone equally. Everyone hopes to be in a monopoly position, but monopoly also directly leads to the loss of group interests. Obviously, competition and monopoly are directly opposed in this case, so to eliminate the general monopoly, just like the suppression of the monopoly of the e-commerce platform in the country a while ago, it will only cause the competition of capital and the damage of people's interests. So why is this just about eliminating "universal" monopolies? In industries such as medicine, the elimination of monopolies is very scary, and in such fields, monopolies are necessary.
Then, in the explanation of the competition for capital, labor and land, there is a paragraph that says "people involved in the competition struggle, if they do not go all out and give up all the real human purposes, they will not be able to withstand this struggle", which reminds me of the "inner volume" in contemporary society, where a group of people struggle for limited resources and give up many of their original "values, world views and outlook on life". To use all means to achieve the purpose of competition, is this the reverse of history? Isn't this a precursor to the social crisis created by competition? Is not human labor also regarded as capital under such social conditions? As a commodity? Is it not also the need to make the production and elimination of man dependent on society alone? The cessation of "internal volume" is not a manifestation of a lack of effort and competition, but a wrong social pattern, and such thinking should be contained in the bud.
In Engels's eyes, business is not a tool for inter-national communication, but capitalists rely on sophistry to achieve their hypocritical monopoly purposes. Society is progressing, and historical mistakes are the best reference for our progress.

**III. The understanding of the Economic Philosophy Manuscript of 1844 [Alienated labor and private property]**
The main idea of this chapter is that under the social conditions of the time, "the more you create, the less you occupy." In the process of producing products, human beings pay their own labor, but the product of labor is owned by capitalists, which forms the alienation and loss of objects in objectification. It is as if the more workers work, the less essential they are as "human" and become slaves to the object. In general, it is a bashing of capitalists.
There is a kind of object-oriented programming in computer programming, which is privately thought to be through Marx's thought reform, in which there is a way to construct data called "class". And Marx said "class" and "object" of the relationship is completely consistent. It is found that in the period of Marx's speech, the computer had not yet been invented, so Marx's thought still plays a guiding role in the field of computers.
As a special "class", man is naturally different from other creatures and things, and has a "life" which is higher than survival and rich in spirit, which other "classes" do not have. However, on the basis of capital society, human's class life is transformed into "object survival" because of the influence of "alienated labor". From life to survival, all because of the shackles of capital.

**IV. Understanding and perception of the Condition of the British Working Class**
Finally, a brief word on the condition of the British working class. The status of the workers should have been extremely high at that time, and the workers determined the foreign exchange of national capital and directly determined the value of the country. But the value of the wages they receive may be that they work only a few hours, but have to work many more hours, and this extra "surplus value" goes into the pockets of the capitalists, which is clearly a sign of low status and suffering.
However, under the pressure of the development of the United States, the expansion of capital in Britain is no longer realistic, and capitalists have to consider the interests of workers. But the workers do not seem to have woken up to the fact that they are the class that should lead the country.
In our lives, we may have great abilities that we do not know and use cheaply, which is terrible and disadvantageous. The greatest fear is not that a person has no ability, but that a person has no needs or has needs but does not know what it means. Without needs, there is no goal; Having a need and not knowing what it means is not motivated to fulfill it. Many people, including me, will aimlessly search for some successful people online when they are confused in life, and want to complete it according to others, needless to say, as long as you have tried, you will know that the probability of success is very small. After all, everyone is a unique individual, and the experience of others must not be fully beneficial, and the book instructs us to learn from the consequences of our own mistakes, that is, to improve ourselves "from our own". The successful experience of others can only serve as a catalyst, the catalyst is good, their own raw materials are poor, the same useless.
I really like two sentences from this chapter:
Great classes, like great nations, do not learn as quickly from any aspect as from the consequences of their own mistakes.
By making demands and knowing exactly what they mean, they will form a solid force.

I didn't read a lot of chapters, but I tried to calm down and read each chapter carefully, and I didn't understand it again. Even if some parts are difficult to read in one sitting, it's worth the time to chew through them over and over again. I also spent a lot of time in virtual games, but those pleasures were fleeting, and when the computer was turned off, it was still empty. But reading is definitely an excellent choice for self-cultivation, very ashamed, until this reading did not have a deep understanding. But at least for as long as there is still time to come, it can be practiced. Marx's thought, the benefit of life.
